In this video, we will learn about functions upon string.
There's a header file called C string.
Even you can use string dot edge.
These Hydrofoils are having some built in functions.
With that, you can perform some operations on string and this is a string using a character or a string
using a pointer.
Let us look at the functions.
I'll show you function.
And also I will give a demonstration of each function.
So here, this is an array.
Let us call this as string one, str one.
And if you want to find out the length of this string.
So the length of this string is.
This is one, two, three, four, five letters are there.
So the length is five.
And if you see the indices, the indices are from zero and the last index is five.
But at that index, none character is present.
So total five alphabets are there in this string.
So there is a function called string length Australian.
Using this you can find out the length of any string.
Let us see the demonstration for this one.
Here I have a skeleton of a program in which already I have declared an array and assign it with some
string.
Hello.
So let us call that function.
So for that I will include.
CS sprinkler.
Sorry.
See, Sting had a fight, so Sea Sting is included.
You can call that function.
So I will say sea out star alien and the sting is SW.
So also I will use NULL for a new line.
Let us run it.
Yes.
Here you can see that land this five.
I will.
Write more in the string hello world.
Now let us run and see.
So add 11 alphabets, five for hello and five for World and there is a space also.
So altogether 11 characters are there.
So the length of first string is 11.
Let me do it using a pointer to a string.
So I will take a pointer to a string.
Then I will say see out.
Enter a string.
Then I will use the scene and say s so this will be reading only one word.
Now whatever the string entered from the keyboard, I'll be displaying the length of that string.
So here I will include a message that is length and string length.
So here I can get the string length.
So here I have taken a pointer to a string.
Then I'm using scene.
I'm reading a string.
Let us run it.
Here.
Interesting.
So I'll give a string programming.
There are 11 characters in this one length.
11.
I'll give you a string.
That is holiday.
Seven letters are there.
I'll try it once again.
I'll try to type two words.
Hello, world.
Five letters only.
It is saying that the length of a string is five.
So actually it is taking only.
Hello.
Already we saw that it will not take multiple words.
So by using scene, let us try this.
Using.
Get or get line.
See in dot get line.
And the sizes handed maximum size.
Hello world.
Yes, it is working.
So if you get line and give multiple words, it will work.
So this is about string lend function.
Let us continue with the next function.
Next function is string cat.
This is for concatenating two strings.
So you have to pass two strings as parameters.
That is two character type arrays as parameters.
First is destination.
Second one is four.
So it will concatenate two strings.
So first is destination this one, right?
It is already having string that is written as good.
Then there is one more string that is having word.
Morning.
I want to combine these two.
This two, I want to combine and store the result in this one.
So how it should work as after this end of the first string, that is it is ending at D, then it should
start writing morning here.
So morning should be written here.
And then after the end of this null character should be included.
So this is what happens when you say concatenate a string.
So this string will be attached to the end of the string and the continuation of this one, and it will
form a single large string.
And there is one more version of string concatenation that is STR and the CAT.
So a letter end is included here.
You can mention how many characters you want to concatenate from this second string that is so string
that is modeling.
Suppose you want only three letters.
So this model will be concatenated with this code that is destination.
So you can mention what length of the source you want to concatenate.
So let us see the demonstration of this one.
I already have a skeleton of a program containing two strings that is SW.
One is having good and SW two is having morning.
So I will use STR.
Kat.
Then I will say as one comma as to.
Then I will print as one.
So this morning should be included in this.
Good.
Let us see this.
Yes, but I print S1 so it is a new thing now that is.
Good morning.
So this is what concatenation is.
Now I have shown you there is one more version that screen and you can mention the number of alphabets.
So I will take just three alphabets and I will run.
So good and more, right?
Only three letters are concatenated from this second string that is source of string.
So that's all about concatenation.
Let us go to the next function.
Next function is string.
Copy.
This will copy the contents of one string to another string.
So this is the source and this is a destination.
So I want the contents of this source to be copied here.
So this is having a string.
Hello.
So this hello should be copied here as it is.
So hello.
And then null character.
So as it is, the same string will be copied in destination array also.
So it needs to parameters.
The first one where we want the copy to be and from source from where you want to copy.
So from this side it will be copied in this one.
So again, there is one more version that is SDR and CP VI.
So in this you can mention how many letters you want to copy from here to here.
Suppose you don't want to copy the entire string.
You want to copy part of a string so you can mention how many letters you want to copy.
That is length of a string.
Let us see the demo of this one.
We are here in this program already.
I have two strings.
One is having content that is good and next is empty.
So now I will call this function still CB vi.
Then the destination is S2 then sources.
S1 So the contents of S1 should be copied in this too.
So let us print S2 and see.
And I'll.
So here I am printing as to.
Let us run this.
Yes it has printed.
So the contents of S1 are copied in S2.
As I said, there is one more version of string copy that is str and p v.
So I should mention how many letters I want to copy.
So I'll say just two letters.
So it will copy.
Just go.
That is go.
Let us run it and see.
Yes.
Only two alphabets are copied from string one to string two.
So this is about string copy copying one string to another string.